README.md, before:

# NodeJS

## Introduction:

A blog site covering the basic concepts of NodeJS.

## Pre-requisites:

- NodeJS (https://nodejs.org/en/)

## Stack (Tools and Technologies):

- Technologies:
  - <b>NodeJS</b> - Main Framework
- Tools:
  - <b>VS Code</b> - IDE
  - <b>GitBash</b> - Version Control
  - <b>Chrome</b> - Web Browser (others can also be used like Chrome, Safari, Firefox)

Setup:
------

  First, verify if your machine has the node installed by running the command `node -v` in a teminal. If you get to see a version, that means node is installed, otherwise, visit the [official page](https://nodejs.org/en/) of node to install the latest version of node js. After doing so, verify again following the same method.

  Once the node is installed, you can use it by using the command `node` in the terminal and start to code in JS.

</br>

# Basic Concepts

## Intro
  JS has been `confined to run in the browser` for a long and used for FE and add interactivity. `Node allows JS to run on the machine or server`.

  Computer understands machine language which is in bits. On top of that, a simpler language i.e. assembly language is used. Then we have programming langs like C++ which then compiles to assembly and so on.

  JS is more higher level language so the computer doesnt understands it. It can run `inside a browser`. Inside browser, an engine called `V8` runs, which is written in `c++ by google` which compiles JS to machine code in runtime. So the computer understands the JS inside the context of browser.

  To run JS `outside a browser`, NodeJS comes into play. V8 engine also lives in node. NodeJS is also written in `C++` that is why it can run on `computer or a server`. After installing node js, it can take JS, it runs it through the V8 engine/compiler and compiles the JS in machine language.

  Apart from being a wrapper to V8 engine, node also hooks into V8 engine to add more funcionality to JS. Things like `read/write a file` on a computer, `connection to a DB` or act as a `server for content`.

  Since we are using the JS `outside the browser` now, we `lose access` to JS features like `DOM`, we cant `interact with HTML` but we dont need it cuz we are using it as a BE server.

  ### Flow
  
  We'll use node to `handle the requests` from a browser or a client. The flow would be somewhat like: a `request comes from the browser`, `Node accepts` it and `fetches data from DB/files` and `formulates a response`. That response could be an HTML page with dynamic data embedded or with some CSS or image data etc.

  ### Advantages over other BE languages:

  - No need to learn extra language for BE
  - Can share code for BE and FE
  - Massive community
  - Huge amount of 3rd party packages

## Create a server using Node.js

## Create an express app / website

## Read and Write files on computer

## Use MongoDB (a NoSQL DB)

## Use template engines to easily create HTML VIews

Commit message:

updates readme with test.js initial file

README.md, after:

# NodeJS

## Introduction:

A blog site covering the basic concepts of NodeJS.

## Pre-requisites:

- NodeJS (https://nodejs.org/en/)

## Stack (Tools and Technologies):

- Technologies:
  - <b>NodeJS</b> - Main Framework
- Tools:
  - <b>VS Code</b> - IDE
  - <b>GitBash</b> - Version Control
  - <b>Chrome</b> - Web Browser (others can also be used like Chrome, Safari, Firefox)

Setup:
------

  First, verify if your machine has the node installed by running the command `node -v` in a teminal. If you get to see a version, that means node is installed, otherwise, visit the [official page](https://nodejs.org/en/) of node to install the latest version of node js. After doing so, verify again following the same method.

  Once the node is installed, you can use it in a terminal by using the command `node` and start to code in JS.

  Alternatively, we can create a js file, and run it by using the command `node <path/to/file>`

</br>

# Basic Concepts

## Intro
  JS has been `confined to run in the browser` for a long and used for FE and add interactivity. `Node allows JS to run on the machine or server`.

  Computer understands machine language which is in bits. On top of that, a simpler language i.e. assembly language is used. Then we have programming langs like C++ which then compiles to assembly and so on.

  JS is more higher level language so the computer doesnt understands it. It can run `inside a browser`. Inside browser, an engine called `V8` runs, which is written in `c++ by google` which compiles JS to machine code in runtime. So the computer understands the JS inside the context of browser.

  To run JS `outside a browser`, NodeJS comes into play. V8 engine also lives in node. NodeJS is also written in `C++` that is why it can run on `computer or a server`. After installing node js, it can take JS, it runs it through the V8 engine/compiler and compiles the JS in machine language.

  Apart from being a wrapper to V8 engine, node also hooks into V8 engine to add more funcionality to JS. Things like `read/write a file` on a computer, `connection to a DB` or act as a `server for content`.

  Since we are using the JS `outside the browser` now, we `lose access` to JS features like `DOM`, we cant `interact with HTML` but we dont need it cuz we are using it as a BE server.

  ### Flow
  
  We'll use node to `handle the requests` from a browser or a client. The flow would be somewhat like: a `request comes from the browser`, `Node accepts` it and `fetches data from DB/files` and `formulates a response`. That response could be an HTML page with dynamic data embedded or with some CSS or image data etc.

  ### Advantages over other BE languages:

  - No need to learn extra language for BE
  - Can share code for BE and FE
  - Massive community
  - Huge amount of 3rd party packages

## Create a server using Node.js

## Create an express app / website

## Read and Write files on computer

## Use MongoDB (a NoSQL DB)

## Use template engines to easily create HTML VIews
